About the Game

Ghosted is a Unity-based, isometric puzzle game with a sneaking mechanic (think Untitled Goose Game), branching narratives, and a calm, lofi aesthetic. The game tells the story of Guin, a ghost who has been haunting the same house since her death over a hundred years ago and who now seeks to move on to the Afterlife. Unfortunately, she has significant unfinished business and personal fulfillment to attend to before she can pass onward. In order to fill her existential quota, she must complete a series of tasks and objectives that orbit around the current tenants of the house, a family who is navigating their own struggles and successes with identity, connection, and community. Throughout the game, Guin can “haunt” or “help” objects in the family’s life in order to reach her own objectives. The manner through which Guin seeks to solve the puzzles will ultimately shift the family’s own fate and story. Ghosted is a story about consequences and community, and a reminder that even when we feel like we are a “ghost” in the lives of others, our presence is never truly gone. 

*Concept animation rules png* 

Art Design and Aesthetic

Inspiration for the art direction of Ghosted came from popular lofi aesthetics, ligne claire, and retro anime in order to foster the contemplative, maximalist, and ultimately inviting atmosphere of the game.

Blank floorplan of the homebase/house of the Martinez family. The house was modelled after turn-of-the-century craftsman houses. Initial floorplan design made by Mike Sidnor, environment designer, and floor textures and various windows and doors were created by Taru Tillman, lead character concept artist. Wall textures, lighting, and rendering completed by me. 

*Floorplan img com_ref.png* 

Setting and Goals of Prop Design

The setting of Ghosted takes place in a small, run-down New England town. The town’s community is fairly connected with one another, and it is common to see people settle down in the area out of comfort and familiarity, often brushing their own aspirations aside. The characters and story are contemporary with the times, although there is somewhat of a lag in terms of fashion and ubiquity of technology due to the nature of the small town. 

Outside of distinct character design and aesthetic, props and set design of the game will followed the principle goal of meeting aesthetics and reflecting the character of the space. Since so much of the game is contingent on interacting with objects, great effort was put in to show the personality of the family implicitly through the space they live in - trying to make the environment as much of a character as the characters themselves. 


*Props* 

Character Design and Animation

Character design for the majority of the cast was completed by Taru Tillman, the lead character designer on the project. In order to keep to the "Halloween coziness", the many monsters and characters throughout the game were designed to be as equally unsettling as  they were charming. After the character design stage, sprite design, animation rules, and ultimately the animations themselves were my responsibility.

*gifs*

Character Sprite Design

Concept design sketches provided by Taru Tillman were translated into overworld sprites that fit the design rules laid out at the beginning of game development.

*height chart, dweller* 

Development of the Game
Development of the game began during the winter of 2021. My role within the project was as lead art director, animator, and sprite designer. I oversaw the work of the lead character concept artist, Taru Tillman, and environmental artist, Mike Sidnor. All images and animations below are of my own work. If you are interested further in looking at the character concept work by Taru, you can see it at her website (https://taru-tillman.wixsite.com/portfolio). 
